README.md, before:

# HVDC

Solves the charge distribution problem on Octree mesh.

The system to be solved is the following:
```math
\begin{cases}
    \frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}&-\nabla\cdot(\sigma\nabla\varphi)&=0\\
    &-\nabla\cdot(\epsilon_0\epsilon_\infty\nabla\varphi)-\rho+\sum_k \pi_k&=0\\
    \tau_k\frac{\partial \pi_k}{\partial t}&+\nabla\cdot(\epsilon_0\chi_k\nabla\varphi)+\pi_k&=0
\end{cases} 
```
on a cubic domain, for k = 1,2,3.

## Basic usage instructions
### Brief overview
The application is basically composed of a main file `HVDC_main.cpp` in `HVDC/src`, some header files in `HVDC/include`, and some `cpp` files implementing plugins and related necessary structures in `HVDC/src/plugins`. Finally, to properly run the application a `json` parameter file is needed.

The file `tests.h` defines a set of tests describing the problem to solve. The user can add his own test to the file or write it in a new plugin.

Similarly the user can modify the function in the `voltages.h` file or add a new one.

The main program will read from the parameter file
- an output folder where to save results.
- a vector of tests to run.
- the parameters needed by:
  - the main program.
  - the selected tests.

### Installation
The direct dependency of the code is `bim++`, while `Paraview` and `GNU Octave` are necessary
for the post-processing operations. 

For the compilation, a `local_settings.mk` file must be created in order to add or modify, 
accordingly to the user necessities, the compilation options present inside `Makefile`, 
and then the following command must be executed 
```
make
```

### Parameters setup
The application needs a `.json` object file in order to run. Changing variable names inside will cause an exception.
To generate a default parameter file run the command
```
mpirun HVDC_main --generate-params <file-name>
```
If no \<file-name\> is provided the application will generate a file 'data.json'.
The main variables in the file are
```
output_location -> directory where to save results
test_to_run -> vector with names of tests to run in sequence
test1 {} -> object with parameters of test1
test2 {} -> object with parameters of test2
...
```
Each test object has three sections inside:
```
physics
    epsilon_0 -> dielectric constant in vacuum
    physics_plugin -> name of the plugin containing the test
    plugin_params {} -> object containing physical constants used by the test functions
algorithm
    possibly some parameters for the mesh generation like (just as an example)
        NUM_REFINEMENTS -> used to generate a uniform mesh
        maxlevel -> max local level of refinement for a mesh
    T -> Full time: the application will simulate the evolution of the problem from time = 0 to time = T
    initial_dt_for_adaptive_time_step -> starting dt with wich to start the adaptive time step (small value suggested)
    tol_of_adaptive_time_step -> tol of relative error of displacement current
    voltage_plugin -> name of the plugin containing the voltage function
    voltage_name -> name of the function V(t)
    voltage_plugins_params -> contains parameters of the voltage function
    start_from_solution -> if true the application will resume a previous simulation from a temporary solution
    save_temp_solution -> if true the application will save the current solution and allow the user to resume the simulation later
    temp_sol {} -> contains:
        file_of_starting_solution -> (if start_from_solution = true) file name of the solution to resume the simulations
        save_every_n_steps -> to tell how frequently should the application save the temporary solution
options
    save_sol -> if true, the application saves the solution to be exported with octave
    print_solution_every_n_seconds -> time step magnitude; how often the application outputs the solution
    compute_charges_on_border -> if true, the application outputs in a file the different charges on the contact (1)
    save_displacement_currents -> if true, enables the computation of displacement current
    compute_2_contacts -> if true compute displacement current on both the contacts
    save_error_and_comp_time -> if true, tracks error of the adaptive time step and computational times
```


### Command line options

To run the application in parallel with MPI, use the command

```
mpirun -np <number of processes> HVDC_main -f <parameters_file_name.json>
```
If no parameter file is given the application will look for a `data.json` if this exists, otherwise it terminates.

If the application is starting a new simulation (start_from_solution = true) and finds that the directory `<output-folder>/<test-name>` already exists will give a warning before overwriting existing files. To disable this warning use the option `--overwrite` in the command line.

## Post-processing of Output Files
### Visualize the solution

The application output is composed of a series of frames to export and visualize in `Paraview`, and three files containing additional information.

### Visualize the solution

The problem solution at each time step is located in 
```
<output_folder_name>/<test_name>/sol
```
where \<output_folder_name\> is set in the data file.

The user can use the `GNU Octave` function included in `export_phi_rho_p1_3.m` 
(located in the  folder `script/m`) to generate the .vtu files,

which can by opened using Paraview. This function is a wrapper over the function `export_tmesh_data.m`
provided with bim++, so it is necessary to add the path `script/m` of bim++ to the Octave path. 
The usage is the following:
From the terminal:
```
cd <output_folder>/<test_name>/sol
octave
```
In octave run
```
export_phi_rho(<initial time step>, <final time step>, <number of processes>)
```
with `<initial time step>` and `<final time step>` being the indexes of the first and last time step and `<number of processes>` 
equal to the number of processors. 

### Other files

If the correspondent options are enabled the application ouptuts the files
```
charges_file.txt
I_displ_file.txt
error_and_comp_time.txt
```
in the folder `<output_folder>/<test_name>`.

By default the application will export these files also in `.json` format.

It is possible anyway to explicitly export a (txt) file in `json` format by the command
```
mpirun HVDC_main --export-json <file/name.txt>
```
To import the data in `Octave` we use the script in `script/m/import_json_file.m`.

Commit message:

added option for parameters checking

README.md, after:

# HVDC

Solves the charge distribution problem on Octree mesh.

The system to be solved is the following:
```math
\begin{cases}
    \frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}&-\nabla\cdot(\sigma\nabla\varphi)&=0\\
    &-\nabla\cdot(\epsilon_0\epsilon_\infty\nabla\varphi)-\rho+\sum_k \pi_k&=0\\
    \tau_k\frac{\partial \pi_k}{\partial t}&+\nabla\cdot(\epsilon_0\chi_k\nabla\varphi)+\pi_k&=0
\end{cases} 
```
on a cubic domain, for k = 1,2,3.

## Basic usage instructions
### Brief overview
The application is basically composed of a main file `HVDC_main.cpp` in `HVDC/src`, some header files in `HVDC/include`, and some `cpp` files implementing plugins and related necessary structures in `HVDC/src/plugins`. Finally, to properly run the application a `json` parameter file is needed.

The file `tests.h` defines a set of tests describing the problem to solve. The user can add his own test to the file or write it in a new plugin.

Similarly the user can modify the function in the `voltages.h` file or add a new one.

The main program will read from the parameter file
- an output folder where to save results.
- a vector of tests to run.
- the parameters needed by:
  - the main program.
  - the selected tests.

### Installation
The direct dependency of the code is `bim++`, while `Paraview` and `GNU Octave` are necessary
for the post-processing operations. 

For the compilation, a `local_settings.mk` file must be created in order to add or modify, 
accordingly to the user necessities, the compilation options present inside `Makefile`, 
and then the following command must be executed 
```
make
```

### Parameters setup
The application needs a `.json` object file in order to run. Changing variable names inside will cause an exception.
To generate a default parameter file run the command
```
mpirun HVDC_main --generate-params <file-name>
```
If no \<file-name\> is provided the application will generate a file 'data.json'.

Moreover, before running a series of tests in sequence it is recommended to check that all the parameters in the parameter file contain all the variables required by the application with the correct types. To this end it is possible to use the command
```
mpirun -np 1 HVDC_main --check-params
```
If there are any errors the application will fail producing a message helpfull for the user to quikly identify the first error in the parameter file.
With this option no test will be run.

The main variables in the file are
```
output_location -> directory where to save results
test_to_run -> vector with names of tests to run in sequence. 
test1 {} -> object with parameters of test1
test2 {} -> object with parameters of test2
...
```
Each test object has three sections inside:
```
physics
    epsilon_0 -> dielectric constant in vacuum
    physics_plugin -> name of the plugin containing the test
    plugin_test_index -> name associated to the test in the plugin file
    plugin_params {} -> object containing physical constants used by the test functions
algorithm
    possibly some parameters for the mesh generation like (just as an example)
        NUM_REFINEMENTS -> used to generate a uniform mesh
        maxlevel -> max local level of refinement for a mesh
    T -> Full time: the application will simulate the evolution of the problem from time = 0 to time = T
    initial_dt_for_adaptive_time_step -> starting dt with wich to start the adaptive time step (small value suggested)
    tol_of_adaptive_time_step -> tol of relative error of displacement current
    voltage_plugin -> name of the plugin containing the voltage function
    voltage_name -> name of the function V(t)
    voltage_plugins_params -> contains parameters of the voltage function
    start_from_solution -> if true the application will resume a previous simulation from a temporary solution
    save_temp_solution -> if true the application will save the current solution and allow the user to resume the simulation later
    temp_sol {} -> contains:
        file_of_starting_solution -> (if start_from_solution = true) file name of the solution to resume the simulations
        save_every_n_steps -> to tell how frequently should the application save the temporary solution
options
    save_sol -> if true, the application saves the solution to be exported with octave
    print_solution_every_n_seconds -> time step magnitude; how often the application outputs the solution
    compute_charges_on_border -> if true, the application outputs in a file the different charges on the contact (1)
    save_displacement_currents -> if true, enables the computation of displacement current
    compute_2_contacts -> if true compute displacement current on both the contacts
    save_error_and_comp_time -> if true, tracks error of the adaptive time step and computational times
```


### Command line options

To run the application in parallel with MPI, use the command

```
mpirun -np <number of processes> HVDC_main -f <parameters_file_name.json>
```
If no parameter file is given the application will look for a `data.json` if this exists, otherwise it terminates.

If the application is starting a new simulation (start_from_solution = true) and finds that the directory `<output-folder>/<test-name>` already exists will give a warning before overwriting existing files. To disable this warning use the option `--overwrite` in the command line.

## Post-processing of Output Files
### Visualize the solution

The application output is composed of a series of frames to export and visualize in `Paraview`, and three files containing additional information.

### Visualize the solution

The problem solution at each time step is located in 
```
<output_folder_name>/<test_name>/sol
```
where \<output_folder_name\> is set in the data file.

The user can use the `GNU Octave` function included in `export_phi_rho_p1_3.m` 
(located in the  folder `script/m`) to generate the .vtu files,

which can by opened using Paraview. This function is a wrapper over the function `export_tmesh_data.m`
provided with bim++, so it is necessary to add the path `script/m` of bim++ to the Octave path. 
The usage is the following:
From the terminal:
```
cd <output_folder>/<test_name>/sol
octave
```
In octave run
```
export_phi_rho(<initial time step>, <final time step>, <number of processes>)
```
with `<initial time step>` and `<final time step>` being the indexes of the first and last time step and `<number of processes>` 
equal to the number of processors. 

### Other files

If the correspondent options are enabled the application ouptuts the files
```
charges_file.txt
I_displ_file.txt
error_and_comp_time.txt
```
in the folder `<output_folder>/<test_name>`.

By default the application will export these files also in `.json` format.

It is possible anyway to explicitly export a (txt) file in `json` format by the command
```
mpirun HVDC_main --export-json <file/name.txt>
```
To import the data in `Octave` we use the script in `script/m/import_json_file.m`.
